Jesus wanted to prepare His apostles for difficult years that lay ahead of them,
and at this occasion He singled out Peter, James and John, and walked them up at lofty mountain.
And maybe He wanted to create a memory that they would never forget.
It seems that the mountain was Mount Hermann.
We do not have to imagine them walking to the top of the mountain.
The transfiguration may have taken place on one of the spurs of Mount Hermann.
It is likely night time.
Luke mentions that Peter and those with him they were weighed down with sleep.
But they became fully awake when Jesus was transfigured before them.
And there's likely even more impressive happening in the dark.
Think of it.
Jesus' face shining as the sun, His garments became brilliant as lights,
and then Moses and Elijah appeared talking to Jesus,
likely talking about Jesus' death and resurrection.
So now the disciples they are awake and maybe also somewhat confused.
And this is where Peter made the suggestion about three tenths, one for each of them.
Mark says that Peter did not know how to react.
Luke says that he did not realize what he was saying.
And then a bright cloud covered them and they hear Jehovah's voice.
This is my son, the beloved whom I have approved, listened to him.
So now they are awake and afraid and they fall on their faces.
What do you think here?
Would they remember this?
Yeah, they did.
More than 60 years later, John is likely making a reference to this in John.
Chapter one verse 14 where he says that we had a preview of his glory.
And Peter for sure, 30 years, more than 30 years later, he is referring to this.
Open your Bibles, please.
And open to second Peter, chapter one.
Reading from verse 16, this is more than 30 years later, Peter is saying.
No, it was not by following artfully contrived false stories
that we made known to you the power and presence of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But rather, we were eyewitnesses of his magnificence.
For we heard from God, for he received from God the Father, honor and glory,
when words such as these were conveyed to him by the magnificent glory.
This is my son, my beloved whom I myself have approved.
Yes, these words we heard coming from the heaven while we were with him on in the Holy Mountain.
So Peter remembered, did it do anything else for him?
Yeah, look at verse 19.
So we have the prophetic word made more sure.
And you are doing well in paying attention to it as to a lamb in a dark, shining in a dark place.
So they saw a preview of Jesus as heavenly king.
Peter says, we have the prophetic word made more sure.
Or in other words, it made their faith stronger.
So why did Jesus do this?
Was that because he felt that their faith was weak?
No, we have no reason to think that.
But Jesus knew that they had very difficult years ahead of them
and they needed a strong faith.
They had turbulent years ahead of them, they needed a strong faith.
Like Jesus' death, his resurrection, their whole confusion, that cost for them.
And then there was Holy Spirit, but also persecution, and then later again apostasy.
They needed a strong faith to live through all of this.
You could argue that our situation today is not much different than that of Peter, James and John.
We know that we have difficult years ahead of us.
And we will need a strong faith.
I could think that if only I had an experience like that of Peter, James and John,
a vision in the night, in the dark with shining clothes and a cloud and a voice out of heaven,
yeah, I would remember that.
And it would make my faith stronger.
And it would also help me for whatever come in the years that is ahead of us.
We do not have a vision like that today,
but we do have things around us that are very close to being modern day miracles.
And sometimes we can live with a thing for a long time and then we start taking it for granted.
But there are things today that are fantastic and special
and where we do see Jehovah's hand.
Just some examples.
We are living in a world that is completely divided.
People are at each other's throat.
They are divided by politics, borders, color of their skin,
rich poor young old.
We have none of that.
We are living all over the planet and in different backgrounds and cultures.
And we have peace and unity in a world that is completely divided.
We see Jehovah's hand.
I think every time we see somebody coming into the truth,
making big changes to become one of Jehovah's Witnesses, we see Jehovah's hand.
We know how hard it is to make changes in our own life
and then talk to others and make them change.
No.
But that is what we do.
We study with them and sometimes they make enormous changes to become one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And not because we are pushing them.
It is basically between them and Jehovah.
We see Jehovah's hand.
We see Bible prophecy is being fulfilled today like Matthew 24-14,
preaching the good news to all the nations.
We do that today.
We are preaching the good news all over the planet.
And we see the results.
We see a great crowd coming into the truth.
We also see a small group of anointeds.
I mean, we have among us a group of brothers and sisters anointed with Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
I mean that Jehovah somehow changed their hope for the future.
Most of us we are looking forward to life here on earth.
But Jehovah changed that for them.
And they know for sure that they are going to go to heaven.
They will be with Jehovah and Jesus.
They are going to rule as kings and priests.
And how do we feel about that?
Do we have any doubts that this is real?
No.
We know that this is real.
Many of our brothers and sisters around the world,
they might have known someone who is anointed or maybe they know somebody.
And of course, many others have never had that privilege.
I think it's safe to say that if you've been a part of the Bethel family for decades,
here at World Headquarters, then over the years,
you have known many anointed brothers and sisters.
And how do you feel about that?
Do we believe that we have a group of anointed brothers and sisters on earth today?
Yes, we do.
We know that this is real.
We have also seen them, seen their character,
and their love for the truth, love for Jehovah, love for the ministry.
We know that this is real.
They are anointed.
That means we also see Jehovah's hand.
So we do not have a vision of a transfiguration.
But Jehovah is doing amazing things today like global preaching, peace and unity, two hopes.
It's all foretold in the Bible and we are living in the middle of all of this.
It's important that we see it and then we also see Jehovah's hand.
Seeing this, remembering it will help us when we go through hard times.